# Detecting Emotion within Discussion Comments 
 
The ability to automatically detect the sentiment expressed in textual data will provide Cath's Cabs with a greater insight into the nuance of the comments associated with research notes. This functionality will support further analysis into the correlation between a comment and a researcher's notes. For example, a comment that has a positive sentiment may be linked to a user gaining valuable information from such note and could contribute to a ranking system in terms of usefulness of research notes. Such a feature could greatly innovate Cath's Cabs's software. 

Sentiment Analysis is an area of NLP which aims to automatically identify and extract opinions within a given text by gauging the attitude, sentiment, evaluation and emotion of a speaker/writer based on the computational treatment of the text.
 
The demonstration reports the results of VADER and the Tone Analyzer classifications for the five example comments. Both VADER and IBM's Tone Analyzer produce a score which correlates to the associated sentiment/emotion. As mentioned above, VADER's score is based off of three different thresholds in relation to the compound score whereas the Tone Analyzer is on a scale of zero to one. A score of 0.75 or higher means it's likely that the emotional indicators are spot-on. 

Both the first and fourth comment have been classified as negative whereas the Tone Analyzer classified these two comments as frustrated and sad. Comments three and five have been classified as positive by VADER and IBM's tool has given a classification of satisfied and excited respectively. The second comment has been shown to be neutral. The benefit of IBM's Tone Analyzer is that of classifying through emotion rather than basic sentiment and in this case the second comment has been classified as both polite and sympathetic. As shown, the Tone Analyzer can classify more than one emotion to comments whereas VADER is limited to one of the three sentiments, i.e. positive, negative, neutral. 
